---
layout: post
title: Navigating the First Rebuttal - Articles for Junior Researchers
date: 2024-05-23 01:14
description: I came across some helpful articles for navigating the rebuttal process and would like to share them.
tags: rebuttal
categories: academic
tabs: true
---

This article is written for researchers who are experiencing difficulties in preparing and conducting their first rebuttal after submitting a paper to a conference. Last winter, I submitted a paper as the first author for the first time, and I felt great anxiety and helplessness while waiting for the upcoming rebuttal. To alleviate these feelings, I sought advice from those around me and searched the internet, but it was not easy to find a solution.

Rebuttals generally provide very limited information, so for junior researchers like me, it can feel like an invisible fear. While you can gauge the quality of a good paper by its citation count and the conference or journal in which it is published, it is not easy to know what makes a good rebuttal response. Since the review process of a paper is generally not disclosed, it is difficult to understand how reviewers critique and evaluate, and how authors defend their work and revise their papers.

Therefore, rebuttal strategies often rely on secret techniques passed down through experience from supervisors and senior researchers, much like the secret methods of ancient Chinese martial arts sects. Fortunately, my group has passed down good techniques, but without knowing or comparing the methods of other groups, it was hard to dismiss the question of whether this was truly the best approach.

Fortunately, in recent times, several senior researchers have recognized these difficulties and have written useful articles: 1) sharing their own rebuttal strategies, 2) analyzing the rebuttal processes of specific conferences, and 3) detailing the paper review procedures of conferences. Through these articles, I was able to approach the rebuttal process more confidently and strategically. My paper received Accept from two reviewers and Major Revision from one reviewer, and with the help of a champion reviewer, I was able to protect my paper from being rejected. Luckily, it only went through a minor revision and was finally accepted.

- Rebuttal Strategies
  1. [Yao, Danfeng Daphne. "Rebuttal How-to: Strategies, Tactics, and the Big Picture in Research." (2023)](https://people.cs.vt.edu/~danfeng/papers/Yao-Rebuttal-Howto.pdf).

  2. [Morris, M. R. "My Rebuttal-Writing Process for HCI Venues."](https://cs.stanford.edu/~merrie/merrie_rebuttal_tips.pdf)

- Analyzing and Introducing Rebuttal Processes
  1. [Huang, Junjie, et al. "What makes a successful rebuttal in computer science conferences?: A perspective on social interaction." (2023)](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1751157723000524)

  2. [Anastasia Ailamak, et. al. "The SIGMOD 2019 Research Track Reviewing System" (2019)](https://sigmodrecord.org/publications/sigmodRecord/1906/pdfs/07_Reports_Ailamaki.pdf)

  3. [Jehee Lee, "SIGGRAPH 논문은 어떻게 결정되는가 (KOR)"(2008)](https://mrl.snu.ac.kr/~jehee/SIGGRAPH_decision_process.pdf)

- Opened Conference Papers and Reviews
  1. [Database (SIGMOD/VLDB) conference papers and reviews from the DBIS group at TU Dortmund](http://dbis.cs.tu-dortmund.de/cms/en/publications/2021/mxtasks/sigmod2021-reviews/index.html)

I hope this article will be helpful for those preparing for conference paper submissions and the rebuttal process.